README.md, before:

# Specificator

[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/neluzhin/specificator/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/neluzhin/specificator?branch=master)
[![NPM downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/specificator.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/specificator)
[![Renovate enabled](https://img.shields.io/badge/renovate-enabled-brightgreen.svg?maxAge=604800)](https://renovatebot.com/)

Specificator is a framework (you may call it collection of DTOs) designed to help you write [OpenAPI 3 documentation](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/tree/master/versions).

## Quick start

### Installation

For NPM users:

```
npm install specificator --save-dev
```

For Yarn users:

```
yarn add specificator --dev
```

### Documentation

For usage docs and examples please visit [docs/README.md](docs/README.md) file.

## What problems does Specificator solve?

All of us know it's hard to support OpenAPI 3 documentation. People use different ways to write it: [Jsonnet](https://jsonnet.org/), [Go templates](https://golang.org/pkg/text/template/), JSON Pointers inside plain JSON/YAML files and many other exotic ways. Sometimes our docs become huge and hard to support; weak tools are risky for developers and they are vulnerable to mistakes. Some tools say nothing when you do something wrong: for example you may not notice a typo in a property name and your documentation may become invalid for visualization tools such as [ReDoc](https://github.com/Rebilly/ReDoc) and [Swagger UI](https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-ui). That's because most of solutions are weak [DSLs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain-specific_language) not designed for that purpose. We suggest that you stop using these solutions and start using strict frameworks such as Specificator.

## What is Specificator

Specificator is a framework written fully in [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) language - it's just like JavaScript, but with strict type system. We believe that TypeScript is the best language for that purpose because it's the most generic language for web developers (developing HTTP APIs is kind of web development, huh), it's easy to dive in and it has large community.

The framework offers collection of classes you may use to represent your documentation. For example, if you want to describe [Tag Object](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.2.md#tagObject), you will write something like this:

```typescript
const catTag = new Tag({
    name: "Cats",
    description: "All endpoints in this category relate to cats",
});
```

More on the way! TypeScript is a real programming language! While you're compiling you documentation, you may do anything: use external libraries, do HTTP requests, use conditions and loops, use variables and more! Everything is possible to do with JavaScript and TypeScript available in your documentation writing workflow. Let's see some examples:

```typescript
const catTag = new Tag({
    name: "Cats",
    description: "All endpoints in this category relate to cats",
});


const createCatOperation = new Operation({
    tags: [
        catTag.name,
    ],
    responses: {
        "201": new Response({
            description: "Response if cat was created successfully.",
            content: {
                "text/plain": new MediaType({
                    schema: new StringSchema({
                        example: "Yay! ID of a created cat is 235!",
                    }),
                }),
            },
        }),
    },
})
```

You may even create your own objects. Let's imagine your API has a lot of places where you are using emails. Instead of copy-pasting `StringSchema` you may create `Email` schema with anything you need and insert it anywhere just like `new Email()`:

```typescript
export class Email extends StringSchema {
    public readonly format?: string = "email";

    public example?: string | null = "cat@example.com";
}
```

Specificator tries to handle as much as possible at compilation time, so if your documentation has been compiled successfully, it will *probably* be valid. But you still should know and respect [OpenAPI 3 specification](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/tree/master/versions) because this tool does not worry about everything.

See all benefits:

* Write your docs in a real programming language called TypeScript. You may use anything here: loops, reading files, other libraries. You are not limited. Use anything possible within TypeScript.
* Because it's written in TypeScript, your IDE and compiler will help you and even say what you've written wrong.
* Almost everything is extendable. That's just OOP.
* Specificator's classes are mapped to OpenAPI. If you already know OpenAPI 3, you know Specificator, too. However it's recommended to read Specificator's [short documentation](docs/README.md) that covers some edge cases.

## License

Specificator is licensed under MIT license. For further details please see [LICENSE](LICENSE) file.

Commit message:

And warning about unstable API to README

README.md, after:

# Specificator

[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/neluzhin/specificator/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/neluzhin/specificator?branch=master)
[![NPM downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/specificator.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/specificator)
[![Renovate enabled](https://img.shields.io/badge/renovate-enabled-brightgreen.svg?maxAge=604800)](https://renovatebot.com/)

> **Achtung!** This library is in early development state so it's unstable. It works now, but there are no guarantees for API stability (it may change during development). We are testing this library inside our projects and adopting some features to make it feel better. Please wait for version 1.0 and don't use it inside real projects.

Specificator is a framework (you may call it collection of DTOs) designed to help you write [OpenAPI 3 documentation](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/tree/master/versions).

## Quick start

### Installation

For NPM users:

```
npm install specificator --save-dev
```

For Yarn users:

```
yarn add specificator --dev
```

### Documentation

For usage docs and examples please visit [docs/README.md](docs/README.md) file.

## What problems does Specificator solve?

All of us know it's hard to support OpenAPI 3 documentation. People use different ways to write it: [Jsonnet](https://jsonnet.org/), [Go templates](https://golang.org/pkg/text/template/), JSON Pointers inside plain JSON/YAML files and many other exotic ways. Sometimes our docs become huge and hard to support; weak tools are risky for developers and they are vulnerable to mistakes. Some tools say nothing when you do something wrong: for example you may not notice a typo in a property name and your documentation may become invalid for visualization tools such as [ReDoc](https://github.com/Rebilly/ReDoc) and [Swagger UI](https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-ui). That's because most of solutions are weak [DSLs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain-specific_language) not designed for that purpose. We suggest that you stop using these solutions and start using strict frameworks such as Specificator.

## What is Specificator

Specificator is a framework written fully in [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) language - it's just like JavaScript, but with strict type system. We believe that TypeScript is the best language for that purpose because it's the most generic language for web developers (developing HTTP APIs is kind of web development, huh), it's easy to dive in and it has large community.

The framework offers collection of classes you may use to represent your documentation. For example, if you want to describe [Tag Object](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.2.md#tagObject), you will write something like this:

```typescript
const catTag = new Tag({
    name: "Cats",
    description: "All endpoints in this category relate to cats",
});
```

More on the way! TypeScript is a real programming language! While you're compiling you documentation, you may do anything: use external libraries, do HTTP requests, use conditions and loops, use variables and more! Everything is possible to do with JavaScript and TypeScript available in your documentation writing workflow. Let's see some examples:

```typescript
const catTag = new Tag({
    name: "Cats",
    description: "All endpoints in this category relate to cats",
});


const createCatOperation = new Operation({
    tags: [
        catTag.name,
    ],
    responses: {
        "201": new Response({
            description: "Response if cat was created successfully.",
            content: {
                "text/plain": new MediaType({
                    schema: new StringSchema({
                        example: "Yay! ID of a created cat is 235!",
                    }),
                }),
            },
        }),
    },
})
```

You may even create your own objects. Let's imagine your API has a lot of places where you are using emails. Instead of copy-pasting `StringSchema` you may create `Email` schema with anything you need and insert it anywhere just like `new Email()`:

```typescript
export class Email extends StringSchema {
    public readonly format?: string = "email";

    public example?: string | null = "cat@example.com";
}
```

Specificator tries to handle as much as possible at compilation time, so if your documentation has been compiled successfully, it will *probably* be valid. But you still should know and respect [OpenAPI 3 specification](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/tree/master/versions) because this tool does not worry about everything.

See all benefits:

* Write your docs in a real programming language called TypeScript. You may use anything here: loops, reading files, other libraries. You are not limited. Use anything possible within TypeScript.
* Because it's written in TypeScript, your IDE and compiler will help you and even say what you've written wrong.
* Almost everything is extendable. That's just OOP.
* Specificator's classes are mapped to OpenAPI. If you already know OpenAPI 3, you know Specificator, too. However it's recommended to read Specificator's [short documentation](docs/README.md) that covers some edge cases.

## License

Specificator is licensed under MIT license. For further details please see [LICENSE](LICENSE) file.
